Update Dataset Formatting guide content (#511)
kolenaIO/kolena: docs/dataset/formatting-your-datasets.md

Reviewer: Line 15:
> Conceptually a datapoint is a set of inputs that you would want to test on your models.

should have a comma

> Conceptually, a datapoint is a set of inputs that you would want to test on your models.

Author: updated

From this you can see that image `horse0000.png` has the ground_truth classification of `horse`,
and has brightness and contrast data.

When uploading a dataset to Kolena, it is important to be able to differentiate between each datapoint. This is

> accomplished by configuring an `id_field` - an unique identifier for a datapoint. You can select any field that is

Reviewer 2: `an unique` -> `a unique`

Author: done

> unique across your data, for example a `uuid` or `article_id` for relevant data.

Reviewer 2: Should we say "...or generate a `uuid` if no unique identifiers exist for your dataset"? Seems odd to group a generated id in with a natural id like locator/article_id

Author: done

Kolena handles the following `id_fields` as a special case:

| Field Name  | Description                                                                                                                              |
|-------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `locator`     | Url path to a file to be displayed, either a [cloud storage](../connecting-cloud-storage/index.md) url or a http url that serves a file. |

> | `text`        | Raw text input for text based models.                                                                                                    |

Reviewer 2: These aren't necessarily `id_fields`. Can this be rewritten to something like "Kolena will look for the following fields when displaying datapoints"

Reviewer 2: nit: can we keep tables aligned

Author: updated

A locator needs to have correct extensions for the corresponding file type. For example an image should be in a format
such as `.jpg` or `.png`, whereas locators for audio data should be in forms like `.mp3` or `.wav`.

> The table below shows the supported file formats for the supported data types:

Reviewer 2: nit: can we drop one of the `supported` here?
I feel this can be replaces with a title for the table eg. `### Locator Support Matrix`

Author: Added a title for the table, good idea.

| Data Type   | Supported file formats                                                                |
|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Image       | `jpg`, `jpeg`, `png`, `gif`, `bmp` and other web browser supported image types.       |
| Audio       | `flac`, `mp3`, `wav`, `acc`, `ogg`, `ra` and other web browser supported audio types. |
| Video       | `mov`, `mp4`, `mpeg`, `avi` and other web browser supported video types.              |
| Document    | `txt` and `pdf` files.                                                                |

> | Point Cloud | `pcd` files.

Reviewer: Did this lose the end pipe?

Author: this was added back last week

> Kolena will attempt to infer common id fields (eg. locator, text) based on what is present in the dataset during import.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kolena will attempt to infer common `id_field`s (eg. `locator`, `text`) based on what is present in the dataset during import.
```

Author: updated

can be specified when importing via the Web App from the [:kolena-dataset-16: Datasets](https://app.kolena.io/redirect/datasets)
page, or the SDK by using [`upload_dataset`](../reference/dataset/index.md#kolena.dataset.dataset.upload_dataset)

> function.

Reviewer 2: Not clear this is talking about inferring `id_fields`. Can we be more explicit here eg "Kolena will attempt to infer common id fields (eg. `locator`, `text`) based on what is present in the dataset during import. This can be overriden by explicitly declaring id fields."

Author: updated

> function.

Reviewer: I feel like this should be above line 30 -- it's a bit of a jump to go from talking about id fields, to details for locators, to back to id fields.

Author: moved to above line 30

An example of this is the [:kolena-widget-16: Rain Forcast ↗](https://github.com/kolenaIO/kolena/tree/trunk/examples/dataset/rain_forecast)
dataset.

> In order to use the Gallery view you just need to have the `locator` or `text` fields specified in the dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use the Gallery view you will need to have the `locator` or `text` fields specified in the dataset.
```

Author: updated

> In order to use the Gallery view you just need to have the `locator` or `text` fields specified in the dataset.

Reviewer 2: Should we give a name to these display fields so we can reference the above table with `locator` and `text` here?

Author: Will think about this, the best name I came up with was `Kolena default display field ` or `Kolena default id fields`

The bounding box for the first image is `(270.77, 44.59), (621.61,  254.18)`. To represent this within Kolena use the
[`BoundingBox`](../reference/annotation.md#kolena.annotation.BoundingBox) annotation. This looks like:

```python
from kolena.annotation import BoundingBox
bbox = BoundingBox(top_left=(270.77, 44.59), bottom_right=(621.61,  254.18))
```
When viewing a bounding box within python the format is
`BoundingBox(top_left=(270.77, 44.59), bottom_right=(621.61, 254.18), width=350.84, height=209.59, area=73532.5556, aspect_ratio=1.67)`

The above example has multiple objects within a single image, in order to ingest this you would need a single field
containing the list of bounding boxes.

For example:
```python
from kolena.annotation import BoundingBox
bboxes = [
    BoundingBox(top_left=(270.77, 44.59), bottom_right=(621.61, 254.18)),
    BoundingBox(top_left=(538.03, 8.86), bottom_right=(636.85, 101.93)),
    BoundingBox(top_left=(313.02, 12.01), bottom_right=(553.98, 99.84)),
]
```
This would be represented within a csv as show below. Note this will be a single line,
but is shown here as multiple lines for formatting.

> ```

Author: Thinking about the best way to show this is a single row. Needed to split for both the markdown length rules and the fact that a single line this long does not have a good experience for the reader.

Reviewer 2: What's the benefit in dumping this blob in the documentation? Can't we just say the Kolena annotation class is serialized to json or something

Author: The idea was to show the user how to go from the raw data to a .csv that can be uploaded. The purpose of adding the blob was to help users understand how the json itself looks, and to have an idea of how the data looks at each step.

| s3://kolena-public-examples/coco-2014-val/data/COCO_val2014_000000369763.jpg | trunk      | 313.02    | 553.98 | 12.01 | 99.84   |

The first bounding box for the image is `(270.77, 44.59), (621.61,  254.18)`. To represent this within Kolena use the
[`BoundingBox`](../reference/annotation.md#kolena.annotation.BoundingBox) annotation. This looks like:

```python
from kolena.annotation import BoundingBox
bbox = BoundingBox(top_left=(270.77, 44.59), bottom_right=(621.61,  254.18))
```
When viewing a bounding box within python the format is
`BoundingBox(top_left=(270.77, 44.59), bottom_right=(621.61, 254.18), width=350.84, height=209.59, area=73532.5556, aspect_ratio=1.67)`

A single bounding box would be serialized as the following JSON string within a CSV:

```
{""top_left"": [270.77, 44.59], ""bottom_right"": [621.61, 254.18], ""width"": 350.84, ""height"": 209.59,
 ""area"": 73532.5556, ""aspect_ratio"": 1.67, ""data_type"": ""ANNOTATION/BOUNDING_BOX""},
```

The above example has multiple objects within a single image, in order to ingest this you would need a single field

> containing the list of bounding boxes.

Reviewer 2: I know the answer but this might make someone question why they can't use multiple fields for each bounding box.
Can we shorten this to  "The above example has multiple objects within a single image. This can be represented by a list of bounding boxes."

Author: Updated this

    BoundingBox(top_left=(313.02, 12.01), bottom_right=(553.98, 99.84)),
]
```
This would be represented within a csv as shown below. Note this will be a single line,
but is shown here as multiple lines for formatting.
```
"[{""top_left"": [270.77, 44.59], ""bottom_right"": [621.61, 254.18], ""width"": 350.84, ""height"": 209.59,
 ""area"": 73532.5556, ""aspect_ratio"": 1.67, ""data_type"": ""ANNOTATION/BOUNDING_BOX""},
  {""top_left"": [538.03, 8.86], ""bottom_right"": [636.85, 101.93], ""width"": 98.82, ""height"": 93.07,
   ""area"": 9197.1774, ""aspect_ratio"": 1.062, ""data_type"": ""ANNOTATION/BOUNDING_BOX""},
  {""top_left"": [313.02, 12.01], ""bottom_right"": [553.98, 99.84], ""width"": 240.96,
   ""height"": 87.83, ""area"": 21163.5168, ""aspect_ratio"": 2.743, ""data_type"": ""ANNOTATION/BOUNDING_BOX""}]"
```

When uploading `.csv` files for datasets that contain annotations, assets or nested values in a column use the
[`dataframe_to_csv()`](../reference/io.md#kolena.io.dataframe_to_csv) function provided by Kolena to save a `.csv` file
instead of [`pandas.to_csv()`](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.to_csv.html). The above

> serializations were created using `dataframe_to_csv()`.

Reviewer 2: Should probably have a brief blurb that `pandas.to_csv` won't properly serialize Kolena annotation objects. Right now we are just saying don't use it without an explanation.

nit: I think we can leave out: "The above serializations were created using `dataframe_to_csv()`."

Author: Updated

dataframe_to_csv(df_merged, "processed.csv")
```

The file `processed.csv` can be uploaded through the [:kolena-dataset-16: Datasets](https://app.kolena.io/redirect/datasets)
page.

### Formatting results for Object Detection

For Object Detection problems, model results need to have the following columns
for the best experience. The values for each of the columns is a [`List[ScoredLabeledBoundingBox]`](../reference/annotation.md#kolena.annotation.ScoredLabeledBoundingBox)

| Column Name            | Description                                         |
|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `matched_inference`      | Inferences that were matched to a ground truth.     |
| `unmatched_inference`    | Inferences that were not matched to a ground truth. |
| `unmatched_ground_truth` | Inferences that were not matched to a ground truth. |

These columns are used to determine `True Postitives`, `False Positives`, and `False Negatives`.

> These results can be formated for upload with a similar process as above. This is done by adding the relavent list of

Reviewer 2: `formated` -> `formatted`, `relavent` -> `relevant`. Can we run a spell checker over the changes?

Author: Ran a spell checker over the changes and updated. In a follow up going to look at adding a spell check to the pre-commit for docs.

```

The file `processed.csv` can be uploaded through the [:kolena-dataset-16: Datasets](https://app.kolena.io/redirect/datasets)
page.

### Formatting results for Object Detection

For Object Detection problems, model results need to have the following columns
for the best experience. The values for each of the columns is a [`List[ScoredLabeledBoundingBox]`](../reference/annotation.md#kolena.annotation.ScoredLabeledBoundingBox)

| Column Name            | Description                                         |
|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `matched_inference`      | Inferences that were matched to a ground truth.     |
| `unmatched_inference`    | Inferences that were not matched to a ground truth. |
| `unmatched_ground_truth` | Inferences that were not matched to a ground truth. |

These columns are used to determine `True Postitives`, `False Positives`, and `False Negatives`.
These results can be formatted for upload with a similar process as above. This is done by adding the relevant list of
bounding boxes to the `matched_inference`, `unmatched_inference`, and `unmatched_ground_truth` columns for each image.

> The results.csv created can be uploaded by opening the corresponding dataset from the [:kolena-dataset-16: Datasets](https://app.kolena.io/redirect/datasets)

Reviewer 2: csv files have been consistently quoted else where eg. results.csv -> `results.csv`

Author: done
